Welcome back everybody.
In this lesson I'm going to show you how you can set up your environment so that you can follow this
course with all of the tools that I have and that you'll see throughout the course along the way.
I'll mention some alternatives that you might use.
It's entirely up to you because these are all just tools and I simply have my own setup that I use throughout
this course.
Now the first thing you need to install is your editor.
So if you already have an editor that you prefer such as sublime or Adam or even an I.D. e like web
storm you can totally use that.
I like Visual Studio code so that's what I use.
So in order for you to get visual studio code simply go to this link that I'm going to provide you in
your resources and then hit the download for Mac button.
Now what this will do is this will trigger the installation.
So simply choose the place where you want to download the actual V.S. code.
So I'm going to choose desktop and this will download the zip folder for you then you simply just open
up the zip and now you'll have your visual studio code application where you saved your zip folder.
So now if I go to my desktop folder I see it right here.
So just double click to open it and then allow your Mac to open Visual Studio code because it's downloaded
from the Internet.
You need to give it permission.
Now once you've given it permission Visual Studio code is up and running.
So you now have the same editor that I use.
The only thing I would suggest you probably do is add the code shell commander to your terminal.
Now we'll explain more about what that actually is in a little bit later.
But right now in order for you to add it you simply hold the command shift and press piece then you're
going to type command.
And here you'll see Shell command install code command path.
So simply click that and then it will install the code command to your path.
Now once you have your path setup you are now able to use the code dot command to open up files and
folders inside of your terminal which we will do a lot in this course.
Now what is the terminal.
Well the terminal is actually going to be the main way that we navigate around our application as well
as modify our files.
As you'll see in this course now by default Mac comes with a terminal.
So in order for you to access it simply go to your spotlight search and type in terminal.
Once you have that just open up the first thing you see and this will be the terminal that you can use
throughout this course now with this terminal.
What we need to do next is actually install note.
Now the easiest way for us to install node is actually to use something called End VM which is node
version manager.
Now in order to install and VM simply go to the link that I'm going to provide you inside of your resource
folder.
And then once you navigate to this link scroll down to this section called installation and update and
simply copy this line and then paste it into your terminal what this will do is this Will closed down
the end VM package and then add it to your existing shell which is the thing that we're running inside
of our terminal.
Now once we have an VM We have to actually close our terminal and then relaunch it.
Now once you have reopened your terminal type command dash V and VM if you see nothing listed then this
means that end VM is not yet loaded to our shell.
So what we have to do is we have to actually scroll down here and we can see inside of these instructions
right here on OSX if we see that there is no end VM script than what we have to do is first check if
we have a bash profile.
Now you can do this by simply typing nano and then this till the sign slash dot bash profile.
Now if you hit this and nothing occurs meaning that there is no bash profile instead of nano replace
this with touch and then run nano Bausch profile again because touch will open a new batch profile for
you.
So inside of our Bausch profile if at the very bottom we see nothing related to end VM that we need
to add this line of running source bash RC.
So let's just add that in right now you can also copy paste this in if you want once we have that.
We just need to save by hitting command X. You don't ask us who we want to save we hit y and then we
hit enter and now what we need to do is we need to type source Tilde slash bash profile to upload and
rerun our bash profile that we've just made changes too.
And now if we type in end VM we'll see that there's something here instead of an VM command not found.
So now we know we have VM.
So now what we need to do is actually install node using NBN.
And the way we do that is we can actually first figure out what node version we want to run.
So let's go to the node Web site which I will link to you as well inside of your resources and here
we'll see that the latest version is ten point one six point zero.
So we don't need to actually manually download this from the Web site.
We can use and VM.
So go back to your terminal and you can type in n VM install ten point one six point zero or any other
version of node that you want to use.
Now you can also type an end VII and the install node and this will give you the latest version of node.
So for us I'm just going to use ten point one six point zero.
And now this will install the appropriate version of note that we need once it's done installing what
we need to do is make sure that we use it.
So in order to do that we can just say n VM use ten point one six point zero and now we'll be using
the right version of note.
We'll also see that NPM was installed as well and NPM is what we're going to use to manage the packages
which are the libraries that we use inside of our javascript applications.
So this is really good.
We have both of them installed now and we can check by typing no dash V as well as NPM Daschle.
And here we see that we have both installed on our computer.
So at this point it's actually perfectly fine to continue with the course you have node you have NPM
you have your terminal and you have your.
Now the thing is that I use Reihan instead of NPM yarn as simply another package manager that Facebook
made during a time when NPR had some issues but NPM is perfectly stable now and both are pretty equal
in terms of the features and the speed regarding package management.
So if you want to use NPM and not install yarn you can definitely do so.
You can simply look at the different commands with NPM that you need in order to run commands instead
of using the yarn ones that I do.
But if you want to use yarn just go to the yarn link that I provide you in your resources scroll down
to the installation script and then copy that line right there.
Then you go back to your terminal.
We clear it and then we paste it in and now this will install yarn into your computer.
Now once you have yarn you just need to check whether or not it's there.
So simply Tynan yarn dash V and if you see a version now you also have yarn.
So now you're able to do everything that I do in this course with yarn and you can switch between yarn
and MP freely ideally in one project.
However you shouldn't use either one or the other.
You should not use both NPM and yarn in the same folder.
Now keeping that in mind you are fully set up to move on with the course.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.